Use Cases of VARs etc:
    estimating relationships between the time series and their lagged values is the vector autoregression process - endogeneous
    the standard error is a vector of nonautocorrelated disturbances (innovations) with zero means and contemporaneous covariance matrix.
    Obviates a decision as to what contremporaneous variables are exogeneous.
    testing Granger Causlity and the effects of policy through impulse respinse - p 587
    
    
    
    We can use this information to forcast based on the appropriate lag.
    
Impulse Response Analysis - estimate the lag and magnituded of a response to a unit impulse in one of the variables. Both period and cumulative effects.

Dynamic Vector AutoRegression:

    Moving Window regression of time series data for the purpose of making forecasts throughout the data sample - similar to Kalman Filter, except look-ahead windows is constant.
    
Benefits:
    generality and scalability
    All variables are endogeneous - there is no explicit target - so it will also model how the "target" affects the inputs.
    Can be further extended to include first difference terms and cointegrating relationships.
    Forecasts better than traditional structural models.
    
Challenges:
    Use little theoretical information about the relationships between variables to guide the specs of the model.
    Less amenable to theoretical analysis and therefore to policy prescriptions.
    Unclear how VAR coefficient estimates should be interpreted.
    
    For relatively small sample sizes, degrees of freedom will rapidly be used up, implying large standard errors and therefore wide confidence intervals for model coefficients - requires a decent amount of data.
    
    The proliferation of parameters in VARs has been cited as a major disadvantage of their use, although model-size issue may well be exaggerated since you generally don't use that many inputs.
     
Use the Information Criteria for VAR Lag Selection
    requires no normailty assumptions concerning distribution of errors.

Testing:
    is complicated
    Use a modified(?) Wald Statistic.
    
    Granger Causlity:
        Causality in the sense defined by Granger (1969) and Sims (1972) is inferred when lagged values of a variable, say xt , have explanatory power in a regression of a variable yt on lagged values of yt and xt
        You can test for Granger Causality with the F-Test - normal distributions - or the Wald test (more general) - Greene p 592-3
        
        Challenge:
            the causality tests are predicated on a model that may, in fact, be missing either intervening variables or additional lagged effects that should be present but are not.
            the problem is that a finding of causal effects might equally well result from the omission of a variable that is correlated with both of (or all) the left-hand-side variables.
    