Chapter 8: Plotting and Visualization

to import
    
    import matplotlib
    matplotlib.use('Agg') # so you don't need a GUI output
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    
Plots in matplotlib reside within a Figure object. You can create a new figure with
plt.figure

You have to create one or more subplots using add_subplot

matplotlib draws on the last figure and subplot used (creating one if necessary), thus hiding the figure and subplot creation
To make a figure and array of the subplots:

    fig, axes = plt.subplots(2, 3)

To save your figure:
    Figure.savefig(filename)
    plt.clf() # clears the last figure
    plt.close() # closes the last figure

savefig doesn’t have to write to disk; it can also write to any file-like object such as a StringIO :

        from io import StringIO
        buffer = StringIO()
        plt.savefig(buffer)
        plot_data = buffer.getvalue()
        
For example, this is useful for serving dynamically-generated images over the web.

here are two main ways to interact with the matplotlib configuration system. The first is programmatically from Python using the rc method.
For more extensive customization and to see a list of all the options, matplotlib comes with a configuration file matplotlibrc in the matplotlib/mpl-data directory. If you customize this file and place it in your home directory titled .matplotlibrc , it will be loaded each time you use matplotlib.
You can also put it in the cwd if you only want it to affect that project.

In exploratory data analysis it’s helpful to be able to look at all the scatter plots among a group of variables; this is known as a pairs plot or scatter plot matrix. Making such a plot from scratch is a bit of work, so pandas has a scatter_matrix function for creating one from a DataFrame.

To work with maps you need to import the basemaps package

from mpl_toolkits.basemap import Basemap

basemap provides many different globe projections and a means for transforming projecting latitude and longitude coordinates on the globe onto a two-dimensional matplotlib plot.
basemap allows you to overlap additional map data which comes from what are called shapefiles.  The Basemap object conveniently has a readshapefile method - good for mappign roads and borders and shit..

Check out other data visualization tools:

    Chaco is a plotting tool-kit suitable both for static plotting and interactive visualizations. It is especially well-suited for expressing complex visualizations with data interrelationships.
    
    mayavi is a 3D graphics toolkit built on the open source C++ graphics library VTK.
    
