Data Wrangling: Clean, Transform, Merge, Reshape

Combining and Merging Data Sets
    
    pandas.merge connects rows in DataFrames based on one or more keys
    pandas.concat glues or stacks together objects along an axis.
    combine_first instance method enables splicing together overlapping data to fill in missing values in one object with values from another.
    
    merge uses the overlapping column names as the keys.
    pd.merge(df1, df2, on='key', how='inner')
    
    with overlapping column names, merge has a suffixes option for specifying strings to append to overlapping names in the left and right DataFrame objects
    you can pass left_index=True or right_index=True (or both) to indicate that the index should be used as the merge key
    
    use DataFrame.join() method for joining on index. can join multiple DFs
    
Concatenating Along an Axis

    a lot like the join method. defaults to outer join when combining columns
    pandas.concat(list_of_dfs, method_of_concat)
    works for multi-indexed frames as well., you just have to specify how the hierarchical index is created.
    You can also ignore the horizontal index if it doesn't matter with the ignore_index = True argument.
    
    
Combining Data with Overlap

    use the combine_first method when you have two datasets whose indexes overlap in full or part.
    It utilizes a vectorized if-else function with alignment between the two data sets based on index.
    you can think of it as "patching" missing data in the calling object with data from the object you pass.
    
    a’s values prioritized, use values from b to fill holes
        a.combine_first(b)
        
Reshaping and Pivoting

    stack: this "rotates" or pivots from the columns in the data to the rows
    unstack: this pivots from the rows into the columns
    
    By default the innermost level is unstacked (same with stack). You can unstack a different level by passing a level number or name
    
    good for manipulating multi-indices.
    
Pivoting "long" to "wide" Format
    
    DataFrame.pivot() allows for setting columns as row and column indices.
    pivot is just a shortcut for creating a hierarchical index using set_index and reshaping with unstack
    
Data Transformation

    to drop duplicated rows, optionally based on subset of columns
        data.drop_duplicates(list_of_columns)
    duplicated and drop_duplicates by default keep the first observed value combination. Passing take_last=True will return the last one
    
Transforming Data Using a Function or Mapping

    map a lambda function to the DF to perform element-wise transformations
        dataframe['column'].map(lambda x: function(x))
        
Replacing Values

    use the replace dataframe method to replace certain elements with another
    you can use a dict or two lists or two values
        dataframe.reaplce(to_replace, replace_with_this)


rename the index and column members with the dataframe.rename() method


use the cut method to categorize a dataframe based on bins.
This returns a categorical object with label (which you can rename) and level (based on the bins) indices

use qcut for quntiles

To select a random subset from a DF without replacement, one way is to slice off the first k elements of the array returned by permutation , where k is the desired subset size.

        df.take(np.random.permutation(len(df))[:3])
        
        
get_dummies converts a categorical variable into a "dummy" or "indicator" matrix - good for statistical modeling and machine learning
Essentially shows in binary when a row belongs to a group.  You can use it in multi-indexing and categorical data. useful to combine with cut or qcut.

String Manipulation

    the regular expression module re is really good for working with strings.
    Creating a regex object with re.compile is highly recommended if you intend to apply the same expression to many strings; doing so will save CPU cycles.
            
            regex = re.compile('\s+') # variable whitespace
        and then use the methods of the regex object
            regex.split(text)
    
Vectorized string functions in pandas

    String and regular expression methods can be applied (passing a lambda or other function) to each value using data.map, but it will fail on the NA
    Use the pandas.Series.str attribute to deal with this, and can use regular expressions
            pandas.dataseries.str.findall(regex_pattern)
    
